See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/270880264
An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation
infrastructure of a WWTP
Conference Paper · June 2014
CITATIONS
3
READS
151
7 authors, including:
Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects:
Modeling the information-value decay of medical problems for problem list maintenance View project
OMG API for Knowledge Base submission for standardization View project
Luca Luccarini
ENEA
37 PUBLICATIONS 206 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
Fabrizio Paolucci
ENEA
5 PUBLICATIONS 4 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
Davide Sottara
Arizona State University
50 PUBLICATIONS 303 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Luca Luccarini on 13 February 2015.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
International Environmental Modelling and Software Society (iEMSs)
7th Int. Congress on Env. Modelling and Software, San Diego, Ca, USA,
Daniel P. Ames, Nigel W.T. Quinn and Andrea E. Rizzoli (Eds.)
http://www.iemss.org/society/index.php/iemss-2014-proceedings
An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation,
control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
Davide Sottara a, Jean Claude Correale b, Thierry Spetebroot b Dalila Pulcini c Daniele Giunchi d
Fabrizio Paolucci e, Luca Luccarini e
aArizona State University, Biomedical Informatics Department, 13212 E Shea Blvd 85259 Scottsdale
(AZ), (davide.sottara@asu.edu)
bDISI, University of Bologna, Viale Risorgimento 2, 40136 Bologna, Italy,
(jeanclaude.correale@studio.unibo.it, thierry.spetebroot@studio.unibo.it)
cDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza L. da Vinci 32,
Milano, Italy, (dalila.pulcini@mail.polimi.it)
dHERA SpA, Via Balzella 24, 47122 Forl`ı, Italy, (daniele.giunchi@gruppohera.it)
eENEA, UTVALAMB-IDR, Via Martiri di Monte Sole 4, 40129 Bologna, Italy (fabrizio.paolucci@enea.it,
luca.luccarini@enea.it)
Abstract: The instrumentation, control and automation of wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is a
key aspect to ensure good performance and lower operational costs. However, control systems are
seldom interoperable and standard-compliant. In this paper, we propose a knowledge-based approach
which decouples the description of the plants and their control strategies from their physical structure
and instrumentation. In particular, we propose a semantic model based on ontologies, formalized using
the W3C OWL2 standard. We have extended the Semantic Sensor Network and created a specialized
representation of the WWTP domain, to provide a consistent description of instrumentation (sensors
and probes), actuators and data acquisition systems. We show how this ontology can be used to model
typical management actions, such as collecting samples or applying a control policy, and their outcomes.
Keywords: ontology; knowledge based control systems; wastewater treatment plants; IEDSS
1 INTRODUCTION
The optimal management of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) requires a continuous monitoring of
the plant state. The biochemical processes taking place in the plant’s tanks must be observed to ensure
that the environment guarantees their maximum efficiency. A less than optimal process may result in
the degradation of the effluent quality, possibly exceeding the limits set by the local legislation. On the
other hand, preserving the ideal operating conditions does not only improve the yield of the treatment,
but can also lower maintenance and energy costs [Olsson, 2012]. To achieve this goal, plant operators
should collect samples from the plant regularly and analyze them to diagnose the actual plant’s conditions
and plan the appropriate control and maintenance actions. However, Instrumentation, Control and
Automation (ICA) technologies provide the only cost and time- effective solutions Olsson et al. [2005],
allowing to monitor a plant in near-real time and to act in a timely fashion. Recently, improvements in
technology have lowered the costs of sensors, data acquisition systems and mechanical and electronic
actuators, so that even smaller-scale plants can be instrumented with a reasonable cost/benefit ratio.
Equipping the plants has allowed to implement a variety of diagnostic and control strategies, aimed at
improving the process, preventing malfunctionings and reducing operational costs. These strategies are
implemented within Environmental Decision Support Systems (EDSS), which combine methods from
statistics [Yoo et al., 2004] and artificial intelligence [Luccarini et al., 2010] with varying degrees of success
[D¨urrenmatt and Gujer, 2012]. Most of the times, however, the control logic is either hardcoded
into the devices that collect the data and command the actuators, or is implemented directly on top of
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
the interfaces provided by the devices themselves. The tight coupling between the control logic and the
plant’s equipment makes it difficult to port the controllers between different plants. Instead, if standards
existed and were supported, the control strategies and the hardware could be deployed, replaced and
upgraded independently. In fact, in a typical scenario, a manager responsible for multiple plants would
like to apply policies based on the plants’ class (e.g. traditional continuous flow, sequencing batch reactor,
membrane bio-rector, . . . ) and scale, rather than the specific type and brand of equipment installed
in each plant. In this paper, we propose an initial step in the direction of the standardization of the
interface between control systems and hardware. Our approach is based on semantic web technologies
[Berners-Lee et al., 2001]: we have extended and combined the popular Semantic Sensor Network
Ontology (SSNO) [Compton et al., 2012] and the Measurement Unit Ontology (MUO) [MUO, 2008] to
create a new modular ontology, called OntoPlant. This ontology includes concepts and properties to
describe the topology of a WWTP, its instrumentation and the data and policies that would be generated
by the sensors and controllers. The ontology, instead, does not describe the processes themselves and
the control logic. In fact, a semantic description of the former could be provided by the OntoWEDSS
ontology [Ceccaroni et al., 2004], while the latter are better represented using other models such as
business rules, decision trees or workflows [Sottara et al., 2012]. Our ontology, however, provides the
concepts and the vocabulary which can be used both by human operators and the control systems to
represent the data, the actions and the context where they are generated. In particular, we focused
on four typical scenarios: i) describing the plant, ii) acquiring data automatically through the sensors,
iii) acquiring manual samples to perform laboratory tests and iv) defining control interventions. We will
use the scenarios to present the OntoPlant ontology and its architectural principles in Section 2, while
in Section 3 will discuss how the concepts can be applied concretely to a real plant, using a pilot scale
WWTP as a concrete use case.
2 MATERIALS AND METHODS
Pilot Plant The pilot plant, located inside the area of the municipal WWTP in Trebbo di Reno (Bologna),
is fed with real wastewater and composed of a pre-denitrification tank (95 L), an oxidation tank (162 L), a
secondary sedimentation tank (85 L). Three peristaltic pumps (for influent loading, internal and external
recycle), a stirrer and a variable-flow blower are included. It is also provided with probes to measure
pH, redox potential (ORP), NH4+-N, NO3–N in the anoxic tank and pH, ORP, DO, NH4+-N, NO3–N and
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) in the aeration tank.
Ontologies An ontology “is a formal, explicit specification of a shared conceptualization” [Gruber,
1995]. The corpus of knowledge about WWTPs is a fitting candidate for such a conceptualization. From
an operator’s perspective, the concepts required to run a plant are relatively stable and well-defined, but
the ability to share information is likely to be a more critical aspect. Usually, companies operating in
the water treatment market manage several dozens (if not hundreds) of plants. The lack of a common
framework to describe the plants and the data collected about their functioning limits a company’s ability
to operate and grow efficiently. In fact, multi-utilities such as Hera s.p.a. (http://www.gruppohera.it/) are
progressively centralizing the management activities using remote control technologies, but the integration
of the different local platforms often not designed for a distributed environment is currently a major
issue. To create such a common ontology, we have chosen the OWL-2 DL language W3C [2012]. In
addition to being a W3C standard, it has a number of other benefits. It can be consumed both by domain
experts and machines, so it facilitates the development of knowledge-based software applications.
It is designed for the (Semantic) Web, so it is compatible with a distributed environment. It is a formal
language based on a fragment of first-order logic, which supports some types of automated reasoning
such as the detection of inconsistencies or the classification of new data (in particular, the DL sublanguage
provides a good compromise between expressivity and computational complexity). Finally, there
exist a number of general purpose ontologies which can be reused in more specific domains such as
the WWTP one. One of these “horizontal” ontologies is the SSNO, which provides the core concepts
necessary to describe Sensors and Observations. All concepts are defined in a very broad sense.
A Sensor is an entity which, through a Sensing process, observes the Property of some Feature of
Interest in the context of an Observation. The SSN ontology, in turn, is built on top of the upper ontology
DOLCE (ontologydesignpatterns.org/wiki/Ontology:DOLCE+DnS_Ultralite), which defines
an even more general layer of abstraction. Among others, it defines concepts such as Agent, Event and
InformationObject. The concepts in the SSN/DUL are too general to be used directly for the WWTP
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
domain, so we have created appropriate subclasses specifically for the description of treatment plants
and their management.
Figure 1. The OntoPlant ontology.
The OntoPlant ontology is actually given by the combination of four different modules, as shown in Figure
1. The first module, the OntoPlant core, serves two purposes. First, it imports both the SSNO and the
MUO, which provides the concepts necessary to model quantities and measures. Second, it completes
the SSNO, adding the notion of Actuators/Actuations and refining the model of the Devices. An
Actuator is the dual counterpart of a Sensor: an entity which can influence the state of a Property: the
context in which this action takes place is an Actuation. In general, even a human operator might qualify
as a Sensor/Actuator: to model the hardware installed on a plant, we have defined the subclasses
SensingDevice and ActuationDevice, respectively. Devices can be connected through Ports, which
have Interfaces that provide the specification of their functionalities. A Port, in general, is an entity
that allows the exchange of materials or information between an object and the external world. The
exact nature and modality of this exchange is defined by the interface(s) exposed by the port. Notice
that the OntoPlant module is still as much domain-agnostic as possible: the WWTP-specific concepts
are introduced in a separate module called OntoPlantWWTP. This ontology defines the Plants and their
macro-components (Tanks, Settlers, . . . ), the Processes that take place within the plant, such as the
NitrificationProcess or the SettlingProcess and the Quantities of interest which are needed to
observe the status of the processes.
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
3.1 Case Studies
The OntoPlantWWTP ontology and its dependencies are intended to provide the background knowledge
to create semantic models of WWTPs. Individual plants, their instrumentation, the samples acquireds
and the control actuations can all be represented as related individuals, instances of the classes and
properties defined in the ontology. In particular, we have focused on four main use cases, which from
our experience cover most of the routine requirements of a plant operator and/or an IEDSS trying to
manage a WWTP, using, as a reference, the pilot plant introduced in Section 2.
UC1 : Plant Topology The main requirement is the ability to model the plant, its topology, the hydraulic
pathways and the instrumentation installed on the plant itself. Using the concepts defined in
the OntoPlant ontology, a Plant can have one or more PlantLine, a System with a number of Tanks.
The description of individual plants can use more specific subconcepts. The Trebbo plant is actually an
ActivatedSludgeWWTP with a single, traditional CASPlantLine composed by a DenitrificationPlant,
a NitrificationPlant and a Settler. The sub Systems such as the Tanks are defined in terms of the
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
treatment Processes that take can place therein, including PrimaryTreatments, SecondaryTreatments
such as Nitrification and Denitrification, Disinfection, WasteDisposal and so on.
The layout of the plant is described by the connections between the tanks. In fact, Tanks can have
HydraulicPorts, a special type of Port whose Interfaces support the flow of liquids. Through the
distinction between InputPorts and OutputPorts and their connections it is possible to define the
complete topology of the plant. For example the NitrificationTank has three InputPorts and two
OutputPorts. One of the input ports is connected to the output port of the DenitrificationTank, one
is linked to the output port of the settler and the third is used to describe the internal recirculation. The
two output ports model, respectively, the internal recirculation itself and the piping to the settler. Once
the structure of the plant has been defined, it is possible to describe the plant’s instrumentation. We
distinguish several categories of Devices, but all devices are deployed in a particular System. Plants,
PlantLines and Tanks are all subtypes of System, so a Device can be placed with the granularity that
is appropriate, also depending on the accuracy of the knowledge about the plant. The Devices are
then distinguished between mechanical devices, such as Blowers and Pumps, instrumentation devices
such as Probes and electronic devices used to interface the instrumentation with the control software
(including an EDSS). The notion of Port is instrumental in the definition of devices and their properties.
For example, a Probe is a SensingDevice (which in turn is a Device) with a Port that exposes
one or more MeasurementInterfaces. A measurement interface exposes the ability to measure some
ChemicalQuantity (e.g. pH, concentration) or PhysicalQuantity (e.g. temperature, flow rate). The
distinction between ports and interfaces is needed because modern probes are multi-function sensors
which can measure more than a quantity at a time, and may expose the values through multiple channels
in different formats. In a similar fashion, a device’s port is considerd an InputPort: some input ports,
used to send commands to a controllable device are further classified as ControlPorts. For example,
the hydraulic pump used for the internal recirculation in the plant’s NitrificationTank has two input
ports and one output port: the port used for the hydraulic intake, the port used for the hydraulic output
and the control port used to regulate the rate. The latter, in particular, has two alternative interfaces: a
manual interface, accessible through a display on the device itself, and an analogic interface that allows
to set the number of revolutions per minute using an appropriate voltage. As always, ports allow to define
connections, both between devices and the other (sub)systems such as the tanks or the pipes. Using
these concepts, it is possible to define the instrumentation of the Trebbo plant, which is equipped with
pH, redox potential (ORP) and temperature probes in the anoxic tank, and pH, ORP, dissolved oxygen
concentration (DO), nitrogen (NH4-N and NO3-N) and suspended solids (TSS) probes in the aerobic
one, three peristaltic pumps (load, internal and external recycle) and a blower. All analogic probe signals
are sampled and acquired in current (4-20 mA) by a stand-alone data logger (Datataker DT80), at
the rate of 1 sample/min, while all the actuators are regulated in current (4-20 mA), by an Advantech
ADAM 5000 module, driven by the DT80.
UC2 : Manual Sample Collection The description of the plant enables a number of other use cases. A
typical management operation is the collection of one or more samples in the plant’s tanks. The samples
are sent to a laboratory where routine chemical analysis are performed to check that the concentrations
of the pollutants in the tanks are within the allowed limits. The OntoPlant ontlogy provides the concepts
to describe the samples, the context in which they were acquired and the result of the analysis performed
on the samples themselves.
The act of gathering a Sample is a specific type of Observation, a Situation taking place at a given
TimeInstant, where a Sensor performs an act that has a result, in this case the Sample itself. A Sample
is acquired in a CollectionPoint, which is located inside a (sub) system such as a Tank. The position
of the collection point can be specified using the exact coordinates, or left undetermined. Using the
OntoPlant ontology, the results of the analysis of the Sample can be modelled as well. In this second
phase, the original sample itself is the subject of the Observation: the content of the sample is the
FeatureOfInterest whose Properties are measured to obtain the desired QualityValues, expressed
in terms of a quantity and a unit of measure, concepts taken from the MUO ontology.
This model is possibly redundant but accurate. Strictly speaking, the results are qualities of the sample
rather than the plant. In fact, the model allows to differentiate between the time when the sample has
been collected and the time the analysis have been performed, the method for the collection of the
sample and the method(s) used for the analysis of each property, and the tools and actors involved in
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
the operations. This historical trace can be used to establish the provenance of the results and their
degree of reliability, depending on the type of analysis that have been performed. For a result to reflect
the state of the plant accurately, it is necessary that the sample is acquired from an appropriate location
in the tank (modelled by the CollectionPoint), using an appropriate method (e.g. by pre-filtering the
sample) and that the chemical analyses are performed in a timely fashion (modelled by the comparison
of the TimeInstants) and suitable techniques. The automated assessment of the provenance of a
sample and the validation of the result of the analysis may have technical and legal implications which
will the subject of future studies.
UC3 : Plant Equipment and Automatic Sampling Probes measuring quantities such as pH, temperature,
and dissolved oxygen concentration require minimal investments, while more sophisticated
sensors for quantities such as nitrates and other ammonia compounds are still more expensive, but
manageable especially in large-scale plants. These sensors can potentially acquire a vast amount of
data which, while useful to continuously trace the state of the processes, necessarily require some kind
of automated management and large amounts of space for data storage. The advent of stable internet
connectivity and, more recently, cloud-based solutions makes a centralized, remote management of the
data a feasible option, especially when an organization is managing multiple plants.
However, this approach has to deal with two main challenges: the diversity of the instrumentation installed
on each plant and the necessity to distinguish the source of the various data streams. The
OntoPlant ontology has been designed to deal with both issues. First of all, it provides an abstraction
layer that can be used to describe the various devices in terms of their functionality rather than the
specific brand or technology. A SensingDevice, like other Devices has Ports that expose Interfaces,
physical or logical, that can be connected or mapped respectively. SensingDevices, more specifically,
are Sensors that can measure the QualityValues of one or more Properties directly. The measure is
an instantaneous Observation performed by the probe using the methodology built in the probe itself.
Unlike a manual sampling, there is no need to create an explicit Sample since the two steps (collection
and analysis) usually coincide. However, probes are installed in a CollectionPoint, so that the provenance
of the results can still be established. The values computed by the probes are accessible through
at least one of their Interfaces, which models the endpoint of the concrete communication channel
used to acquire or download the data.
From a data acquisition system’s perspective, the ontology allows to describe the context where a “number”
is generated, so the values can be completely qualified even in a distributed environment. If URIs
are used to denote individuals, as recommended by the standard, the risk of ambiguities is removed.
The linked and graph-oriented nature of the semantic data model allows to decide how much data should
be shared between two endpoints so that both can share the same information. In particular, if a data
acquisition system installed locally on a plant and a remote data center share the same description of
the plant, as per the first use case discussed, it is merely sufficient to communicate the QualityValues
acquired by each probe to keep the two systems synchronized, thus minimizing the amount of network
traffic.
UC4 : Control and Actuation The approach used for the data acquisition can be reversed and
adopted for (automated) control. Most plants allow for some form of control over time: the change
of a recirculation rate or the amount of air blown in an oxidation tank are two basic and common examples.
However, control policies are usually defined in terms of a target goal (e.g. the nitrogen compound
or the oxygen concentration in a tank) and a manipulation variable (e.g. a pump’s rpm or a blower’s flow
rate). A logical command such as “set the pump speed to 20rpm” has to be translated into a specific
signal delivered to a specific channel which is normally device-specific. The OntoPlant ontology allows
to decouple the two steps: the high-level commands can be formulated in terms of Actuations the dual
counterpart of an Observation , which set the Property of a Device to the desired QualityValue, as
always expressed by a unit/value pair. In particular, the actuation is targeted to an Interface exposed
by a Port of the device. The semantic representation, as always, leverages the description of the plant
and its equipment, also defined using the concepts in the ontology. The abstraction provided by the
developed semantic model allows to decouple control policies from hardware configuration (Figure 2).
The control system, regardless of whether it is an interface for an operator or a full EDSS, can issue
the commands in a format which is independent of the specific device, but is focused on the desired
functionality. The assumption is that local equipment is enhanced with a device-specific driver that can
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
parse the semantic request and translate it into the appropriate signals on the appropriate channels. The
advantages of this approach are twofold: the original command is expressed using terms more standard
and familiar to the domain experts, so the development of controllers and their logic could be simplified;
moreover, the dependency on the actual devices is pushed as close as possible to the device itself, so
that it is easier to replace or upgrade them.
Figure 2. Semantic model.
3.2 Discussion
The current version of the OntoPlant ontology is an OWL2-DL modular theory with 234 classes, 53
object properties and 14 data properties. The ontology is still being developed, so the figures are
subject to change. It leverages popular ontologies such as the SSNO, but is one of the first examples
of its kind specifically targeted at the development of WWTP EDSS focused on the monitoring, control
and optimization of the plant’s performance. To be used effectively, plants should be modelled using the
concepts defined in the ontology, creating a standard and shareable representation of their structure and
equipment. This description, together with the remaining concepts in the ontology, allows to implement a
variety of other use cases. First of all, it can help manage the vast amount of data that can be potentially
acquire from one or more plants, allowing to explicitly define the semantics and the provenance of the
values. Second, it allows to decouple the management policies from their concrete application to the
specific plants. This is a critical aspect in the realization of portable EDSS, which would otherwise
have to be developed for explicit combinations of plants and equipments. Instead, the policies which
are usually implemented by EDSSs are likely to be expressed in general terms, such as “The value of
concentration of nitrates in the effluent of a large-scale plant near a safety-critical zone must not exceed
a given threshold”. Using an ontology that contains the appropriate definitions, similar constraints can be
implemented directly using the vocabulary provided by the ontology itself, leaving the task of performing
the appropriate translations and matches to the underlying reasoning components embedded in the
EDSS. In our case, a policy such as the one presented could easily be expressed in terms of the
QualityValue of a Property (the concentration of nitrates) acquired in a CollectionPoint located
downstream a Settler that is part of a Plant with a certain person-equivalent attribute value. The
OntoPlant ontology can thus become an important component in the implementation of an EDSS. It
provides the vocabulary to unambiguously describe a plant and its equipment, in a way that is shareable
between human operators and EDSS. The semantic description can also be indexed and queried using
languages such as SPARQL or SQWRL, enabling the feasibility of a plant “directory”, where multiple
plants are cataloged. More generally, the ontology would allow to use graph databases to store and
possibly share environmental data. In such as format, the data can be queried and processed using
techniques based on DL reasoning in addition to business rules, which are more traditionally adopted
in knowledge-based EDSSs. A detailed discussion on the implementation of an EDSS based on the
OntoPlant ontology goes beyond the scope of this work, even if a preliminary analysis can be found in
Sottara et al. [2012].
The OntoPlant ontology is currently available at https://github.com/sotty/OntoPlant
4 CONCLUSIONS
We have proposed a new ontology, OntoPlant, that models WWTPs from the perspective of a plant
operator. The ontology is modular and is built on top of preexisting upper ontologies, which facilitates
D. Sottara et al. An ontology-based approach for the instrumentation, control and automation infrastructure of a WWTP
its extension and integration in other systems. The ontology serves several purposes. First, it is an
asset that provides the concepts and the vocabulary to formalize a domain expert’s knowledge about
plants and their management policies. Second, it allows to express the knowledge in a format that is
interoperable and shareable between different plants and their automated control systems. In fact, it
allows to decouple the control policies from the setting-specific details, which depend on the particular
devices installed on a plant at a given time. Last, as a machine-readable representation, it facilitates
the development and the integration of monitoring and control softwares required by a modern plant. In
particular, it is designed to model and implement the monitoring and control and policies necessary to
optimize the operation of a plant. The ontology is currently being used to model a pilot-scale conventional
activated sludge (CAS) plant and its agent-based Intelligent Environmental Decision Support System
(IEDSS).
REFERENCES
Berners-Lee, T., Hendler, J., and Lassila, O. (2001). The semantic web. Scientific American, 284(5):34–
43.
Ceccaroni, L., Cort ´es, U., and S`anchez-Marr` e, M. (2004). Ontowedss: augmenting environmental
decision-support systems with ontologies. Environmental Modelling & Software, 19(9):785 – 797.
Compton, M., Barnaghi, P., Bermudez, L., Garca-Castro, R., Corcho, O., Cox, S., Graybeal, J.,
Hauswirth, M., Henson, C., Herzog, A., Huang, V., Janowicz, K., Kelsey, W. D., Phuoc, D. L., Lefort,
L., Leggieri, M., Neuhaus, H., Nikolov, A., Page, K., Passant, A., Sheth, A., and Taylor, K. (2012).
The SSN ontology of the W3C semantic sensor network incubator group. Web Semantics: Science,
Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, 17(0):25 – 32.
D¨urrenmatt, D. and Gujer, W. (2012). Data-driven modeling approaches to support wastewater treatment
plant operation. Environment Modelling & Software, 30:47–56.
Gruber, T. R. (1995). Toward principles for the design of ontologies used for knowledge sharing. Int. J.
Hum.-Comput. Stud., 43(5-6):907–928.
Luccarini, L., Bragadin, G., Colombini, G., Mancini, M., Mello, P., Montali, M., and Sottara, D. (2010).
Formal verification of wastewater treatment processes using events detected from continuous signals
by means of artificial neural networks. case study: Sbr plant. Environmental Modelling & Software,
25(5):648–660.
MUO (2008). Muo ontology: http://idi.fundacionctic.org/muo/muo-vocab.html.
Olsson, G. (2012). ICA and me – a subjective review. Water Research, 46(6):1585–624.
Olsson, G., Nielsen, M., Yuan, Z., Lynggaard-Jensen, A., and Steyer, J. P. (2005). Instrumentation,
Control and Automation in Wastewater Systems. IWA Publishing, London UK.
Sottara, D., Bragaglia, S., Pulcini, D., Mello, P., Giunchi, D., and Luccarini, L. (2012). Ontologies, rules,
workflow and predictive models: Knowledge assets for an EDSS. In R. Seppelt, A.A. Voinov, S. Lange,
D. Bankamp (Eds.) (2012): International Environmental Modelling and Software Society (iEMSs)
2012 International Congress on Environmental Modelling and Software. Managing Resources of a
Limited Planet: Pathways and Visions under Uncertainty, Sixth Biennial Meeting, Leipzig, Germany.
http://www.iemss.org/society/index.php/iemss-2012-proceedings. ISBN: 978-88-9035-742-8.
W3C (2012). W3c recommendation 11–12–2012: http://www.w3.org/tr/owl2-overview/.
Yoo, C., Lee, D., and Vanrolleghem, P. (2004). Application of multiway ica for on-line process monitoring
of a sequencing batch reactor. Water Research, 38(7):1715–1732.
View publication stats